README.md, before:

# Rendr CLI [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/technicolorenvy/rendr-cli.png)](https://travis-ci.org/technicolorenvy/rendr-cli)


The goal of Rendr CLI is to provide the ablility to generate Rendr apps and app components quickly and efficiently.

This project is in an early alpha stage.


## Getting Started

Assuming Node and npm are present and accounted for, install the Rendr CLI with:

    npm install rendr-cli -g


## Usage

    rendr COMMAND [options]

    Options:

    -h, --help                       output usage information
    -V, --version                    output the version number
    -u, --url <url>                  Set a url (only evaluated when generating a model)
    -i, --idAttribute <idAttribute>  Set an idAttribute (only evaluated when generating a model)
    -a, --apiHost <apiHost>          Set an apiHost (only evaluated when generating a model)
    n, new <name>                    Creates a new Rendr project with <name>
    g, generate <g> <name>           Generate a <model, view> with <name>


### Creating a Rendr App
The `rendr new` command creates a new Rendr application with a default directory structure
and configuration relative to the directory you are executing the command from.

For example:

    rendr new APPNAME

This generates a skeletal Rendr installation in `<current path>/APPNAME`.


### Generating Models:
By default, generating a model will provide you a bare-bones scaffolded model file
containing empty values for your `url` and `idAttrubutes` keys.

For example:

    rendr generate model MODELNAME

This generates a nearly empty model at `APPNAME/app/models/MODELNAME`

You may make the model more useful by optionally passing the `--url`, `--idAttrubute`,
or `--apiHost` flags. These flagnames match exactly the resulting keys, and values,
that are produced in the generated model.


### Generating Views:
Views will automatically generate the associated controllers + templates directories/files

If you wish to add more actions to your view, beyond the default `index` action
you may pass additional arguments to the generator like so

For example:

    $ rendr generate view VIEWNAME action1 action2 action3

Will generate the `action1`, `action2`, and `action3` view files in the `APPNAME/app/views/VIEWNAME` directory.
It will also generate the corresponding controller `APPNAME/app/controllers/VIEWNAME`
And templates for `action1`, `action2`, and `action3` in the `APPNAME/app/templates/VIEWNAME` directory.

Additionally, when called from the command-line

    rendr generate view

  and

    rendr generate controller

are functionaly the same, `controller` is provided as a convience


### File Structure
_(Coming soon)_


### App Recipes
_(Coming soon)_


## Contributing
If you have a bug fix or feature proposal, submit a pull request with a clear description of the change, plus tests.

## License
Copyright (c) 2013 Joseph (Jos) Smith  
Licensed under the MIT license.

Commit message:

Breaking apart views and controllers, if you need these (plus templates) use scaffold
- closes #13

README.md, after:

# Rendr CLI [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/technicolorenvy/rendr-cli.png)](https://travis-ci.org/technicolorenvy/rendr-cli)


The goal of Rendr CLI is to provide the ablility to generate Rendr apps and app components quickly and efficiently.

This project is in an early alpha stage.


## Getting Started

Assuming Node and npm are present and accounted for, install the Rendr CLI with:

    npm install rendr-cli -g


## Usage

    rendr COMMAND [options]

    Options:

    -h, --help                       output usage information
    -V, --version                    output the version number
    -u, --url <url>                  Set a url (only evaluated when generating a model)
    -i, --idAttribute <idAttribute>  Set an idAttribute (only evaluated when generating a model)
    -a, --apiHost <apiHost>          Set an apiHost (only evaluated when generating a model)
    --noTemplates                    Do not generate templates (only evaluated when generating a view
    n, new <name>                    Creates a new Rendr project with <name>
    g, generate <g> <name>           Generate a <model, view> with <name>


### Creating a Rendr App
The `rendr new` command creates a new Rendr application with a default directory structure
and configuration relative to the directory you are executing the command from.

For example:

    rendr new APPNAME

This generates a skeletal Rendr installation in `<current path>/APPNAME`.


### Generating Models:
By default, generating a model will provide you a bare-bones scaffolded model file
containing empty values for your `url` and `idAttrubutes` keys.

For example:

    rendr generate model MODELNAME

This generates a nearly empty model at `APPNAME/app/models/MODELNAME`

You may make the model more useful by optionally passing the `--url`, `--idAttrubute`,
or `--apiHost` flags. These flagnames match exactly the resulting keys, and values,
that are produced in the generated model.


### Generating Views:
Generating a view will produce multiple bare view files. One for each action (`index`, if none are specified).

Additionally, views will automatically generate the associated templates directories/files unless the `--noTemplates` option is specified

If you wish to add more actions to your view, beyond the default `index` action you may pass additional arguments to the generator like so

For example

    rendr generate view VIEWNAME ACTION1 ACTION2 ACTION3

Will generate the `ACTION1`, `ACTION2`, and `ACTION3` view files in the `APPNAME/app/views/VIEWNAME` directory.
AND templates for `ACTION1`, `ACTION2`, and `ACTION3` in the `APPNAME/app/templates/VIEWNAME` directory.


### Controllers:
Controller files will be generated with an entry for each action (`index`, if none are specified).

Like views, if you wish to add more actions to your controller, beyond the default `index` action, you may pass additional arguments to the generator like so

For example

    rendr generate controller CONTROLLERNAME ACTION1 ACTION2 ACTION3

Will generate the `ACTION1`, `ACTION2`, and `ACTION3` controller entries in the `APPNAME/app/controllers/CONTROLLERNAME` file.

### Scaffolds:
Scaffolds will generate views and controllers, as such they follow all the same rules and optional flags

For example

    rendr generate scaffold SCAFFOLDNAME ACTION1 ACTION2 ACTION3

Will generate the `ACTION1`, `ACTION2`, and `ACTION3` view files in the `APPNAME/app/views/SCAFFOLDNAME` directory.  
AND templates for `ACTION1`, `ACTION2`, and `ACTION3` in the `APPNAME/app/templates/SCAFFOLDNAME` directory.  
AND generate the `ACTION1`, `ACTION2`, and `ACTION3` controller entries in the `APPNAME/app/controllers/SCAFFOLDNAME` file.  

### File Structure
_(Coming soon)_


### App Recipes
_(Coming soon)_


## Contributing
If you have a bug fix or feature proposal, submit a pull request with a clear description of the change, plus tests.

## License
Copyright (c) 2013 Joseph (Jos) Smith  
Licensed under the MIT license.
